---
title: "October 22, 2020"
date: "2020-10-22"
---

A [report](https://networklobby.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/KINO-NETWORK-CBP-Abuses-consolidated.pdf) from the Kino Border Initiative (KBI) and NETWORK recounts the experience in custody of a Guatemalan man, his wife, and two children who were detained and held at the Sasabe Outpost of Border Patrol's Tucson Station.

> They were taken to two facilities in quick succession. At the second facility they were processed. While they were processed, an agent with a tattoo said that the US was not accepting asylum seekers at this time, and it was dangerous to cross in the desert. The Guatemalan man said he recognized this agent as someone they had encountered before in the desert. But there, the agent had been dressed in plain clothes and driving an unmarked vehicle; in the office he was wearing a uniform. The Guatemalan man said he recognized him by his tattoo. At no time while they were in CBP custody were they able to talk about their fears of return to Guatemala or ask for asylum. They were all expelled to Mexico the same day they entered.

KBI filed an October 30, 2020 complaint with the DHS Office on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties (CRCL) and the CBP Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR). On November 18, CRCL emailed “stating that they received the complaint, recorded it in their database, and no further actions would be taken. No details were provided about disciplinary actions for officers or recourse for victims of abuse.”

— _Due Process Denied_ (United States: Kino Border Initiative (KBI) and NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice, August 2021) [https://networklobby.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/KINO-NETWORK-CBP-Abuses-consolidated.pdf](https://networklobby.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/KINO-NETWORK-CBP-Abuses-consolidated.pdf).
