---
title: "April 5, 2021"
date: "2021-04-05"
---

A [report](https://networklobby.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/KINO-NETWORK-CBP-Abuses-consolidated.pdf) from the Kino Border Initiative (KBI) and NETWORK recounted the conditions of a Guatemalan man's apprehension by Border Patrol in Arizona, which appeared to involve aggressive use of canines.

> A Guatemalan man entered the United States in a group of three and was met by five Border Patrol agents. The agent had dogs and the man was afraid of dogs, so he ran and hid so that the dogs would not bite him. Then the agent forcefully grabbed him by the back of the neck and handcuffed him to other detained migrants. The agents were screaming in English, but the Guatemalan man did not understand English. The man complained that the handcuffs were too tight, but the agents did not respond. The agent’s dog ran between the three immigrants, causing one to fall first and take the others down with him. The Guatemalan man who made this complaint fell on his wrist and his handcuffs got tighter. He asked again that they loosen the handcuffs but there was no response. His right wrist was bruised for days after he was expelled.

KBI filed an April 7, 2021 complaint with the DHS Office on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties (CRCL) and the CBP Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR). As of August 17, 2021, KBI had received no response.

— _Due Process Denied_ (United States: Kino Border Initiative (KBI) and NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Justice, August 2021) [https://networklobby.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/KINO-NETWORK-CBP-Abuses-consolidated.pdf](https://networklobby.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/08/KINO-NETWORK-CBP-Abuses-consolidated.pdf).
