---
title: "October 27, 2021"
date: "2021-10-27"
---

The Southern Border Communities Coalition (SBCC) surfaced the issue of Border Patrol’s “Critical Incident Teams,” which often arrive at the scene when agents may have committed wrongdoing. The SBCC submitted a [letter](https://d3n8a8pro7vhmx.cloudfront.net/alliancesandiego/pages/3292/attachments/original/1635367319/SBCC_letter_to_Congress_Final_10.27.21.pdf?1635367319) to congressional leaders requesting that they hold hearings into these units' activities. While Critical Incident Teams may have other roles, coming up with exculpatory evidence to protect agents strongly appears to be one of them. No other law enforcement agency, the SBCC contends, has a similar capability, and the Teams’ existence is not specifically authorized by law.

SBCC was alerted to the teams’ role while carrying out advocacy around the [case](https://theintercept.com/2021/02/04/border-patrol-killing-impunity-iachr/) of Anastasio Hernández, a Mexican citizen whom border agents beat and tasered to death in a 2010 case caught on cellphone video. The Coalition found that a Critical Incident Team failed to notify San Diego police, controlled police investigators’ witness lists, tampered with evidence, sought to obtain Hernández’s medical records, failed to preserve video evidence, and “contacted the FBI and asked them to charge Anastasio with assault while he lay brain dead in the hospital. The FBI declined.”

Critical Incident Teams have existed in some form at least since 1987. (Their “challenge coin,” depicted in SBCC’s document, says “Est. May 21, 2001” and includes images of a chalk outline and a rolled-over vehicle.) They are almost never mentioned in Border Patrol or CBP statements. “Their existence poses a threat to public safety,” SBCC argued, “by concealing agent misconduct, enabling abuse, and exacerbating impunity within the nation’s largest law enforcement agency, U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP). Immediate investigations into BPCITs are imperative.”

A January 10, 2022 front-page _New York Times_ [story](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/01/09/us/politics/border-patrol-migrant-deaths.html) about Border Patrol vehicle pursuit tactics included an account of Critical Incident Teams' presence after an [August 3 crash](/event/august-3-2021/) in New Mexico:

> Body camera footage from a state police officer captured one of the Border Patrol agents saying: “Our critical incident team is coming out. They’ll do all the crime scene stuff—well, not crime scene, but critical incident scene.” The agent said that he and his colleague would give statements to the team, which it would share with the police.

— Vicki B. Gaubeca, Andrea Guerrero, "Request for congressional investigations and oversight hearings on the unlawful operation of the U.S. Border Patrol’s Critical Incident Teams (BPCITs)" (San Diego: Southern Border Communities Coalition, October 27, 2021) [https://d3n8a8pro7vhmx.cloudfront.net/alliancesandiego/pages/3292/attachments/original/1635367319/SBCC\_letter\_to\_Congress\_Final\_10.27.21.pdf?1635367319](https://d3n8a8pro7vhmx.cloudfront.net/alliancesandiego/pages/3292/attachments/original/1635367319/SBCC_letter_to_Congress_Final_10.27.21.pdf?1635367319).

Sector(s): [[Border-Wide]]

Agency(ies): [[Border Patrol]],  [[Critical Incident Teams]]

Event Type(s): [[Evading Oversight]]

Accountability Status: [[Shared with congressional oversight committees]],  [[Under congressional investigation]],  [[Under GAO investigation]]

Victim Classification: 