---
title: "October 13, 2021"
date: "2021-10-13"
---

The Central American website _ContraCorriente_ published a Honduran family’s [account](https://contracorriente.red/2021/10/15/en-la-madrugada-e-ignorados-por-el-estado-llegan-a-corinto-miles-de-hondurenos-deportados/) of being held in Border Patrol custody in south Texas, then expelled on a flight to southern Mexico under the Title 42 pandemic policy.

> For Fernando and his family, the American dream had ended just as it was beginning. As he tells us, they and about 150 other people were forced to walk from the border to the city of McAllen, Texas. They walked for about two hours and then boarded a bus that took them to the famous "_hieleras_" \[“freezers”\], as the migrants call the detention centers, whose characteristic is that they are very cold. They remained there for four days.
> 
> During their stay in the "_hieleras_" they had to bathe at 2 a.m. Fernando says that his girls got sick with respiratory problems. They were fed flour tortillas and lettuce. Before entering the detention center they were asked for the contact and address of the people who were waiting for them in the great country to the north. "Supposedly they were going to call them to pick us up, but from then on there was nothing, they kept us in the _hielera_ for four days without knowing anything," he told us.
> 
> On Wednesday, October 13, Fernando and his family were called to a room where there were other people. He’s assured that they even called his relatives, and he thought he was going to be reunited with them. They were put on a bus, taken to the airport in McAllen, and once on the plane Fernando knew something was wrong. They asked the immigration officials what was going on and they answered that they did not know: "When I least expected it, the plane landed and we saw that the airport said welcome to Villa Hermosa" \[in southern Mexico\].
> 
> Once they landed in the aforementioned city, jurisdiction of the State of Tabasco, the migrants demanded to know why they were left on Mexican soil if they were not originally from that country. At the airport they were picked up by Mexican immigration and boarded onto a new bus, in which they traveled to Corinto, on the border of Guatemala and Honduras. "They brought us here on bread and water," says Fernando, touching his stomach. "They tricked us because we were supposedly going to our family, they even called them. Now they were surprised when I told them I was in Honduras. I was able to call because they gave us back our phones," he adds.

— Allan Bu, “En la Madrugada, e Ignorados por el Estado, Llegan a Corinto Miles de Hondurenos Deportados” (Honduras: _ContraCorriente_, October 15, 2021) [https://contracorriente.red/2021/10/15/en-la-madrugada-e-ignorados-por-el-estado-llegan-a-corinto-miles-de-hondurenos-deportados](https://contracorriente.red/2021/10/15/en-la-madrugada-e-ignorados-por-el-estado-llegan-a-corinto-miles-de-hondurenos-deportados).

Sector(s): [[Rio Grande Valley]]

Agency(ies): [[Border Patrol]]

Event Type(s): [[Conditions in Custody]],  [[Denial of Asylum]],  [[Lying or Deliberate Misleading]]

Accountability Status: [[No steps taken]]

Victim Classification: 